Tonight, we are learning new
details about the two Israeli hostages
who were just released
in recent hours by Hamas.
Now, read
Cooper and Heaven
Leave sheets were abducted
from their kibbutz
along with their husbands
who still remain hostages tonight.
This war is being fought
not on some remote battlefield,
but in quiet communities
where families
previously grew their crops
and raise their kids.
Just yesterday, an Israeli
soldier was killed
and three others were injured
during a raid in the area of Kibbutz
Safi near the Gaza Strip.
I was there just 24 hours before.
Or you can see Gaza
from people's backyards.
About ten reporters
were taken inside this kibbutz
to see the horrific aftermath
of the October 7th attack.
I want to show you what we saw.
But I do want to warn you
that some of what you're about
to see is graphic.
Kibbutz Kaisa
Farms is
less than three miles away
from the Gaza
border,
a quiet community
where residents grow
avocados
and raise poultry and their families.
But as the sun rose on Saturday,
October 7th,
the kibbutz that around
300 people called home
became the site of a massacre
as Hamas
militants stormed inside
and murdered
14 people, kidnaping four others.
Major Marcus Sheff, a reservist
in the Israel Defense Forces,
watched from home
as the brutal attack unfolded that day.
Now he's leading a small group
of foreign press into the kibbutz
for the first time.
Wanting the world
to bear witness
to the atrocities firsthand.
You know, the shock you feel that
after two weeks we've seen the damage
and yet it's still
hard to to absorb the full whole.
The stench of death is thick in the air
as you walk along the tree lined streets.
But if you didn't look too
closely,
you'd never guess that a slaughter
took place here.
Then you notice the bullet hole and Jenas
Mia touches door.
The 90 year old grandmother
who loved gardening
was in her bathroom
when Hamas militants
shot her in the head.
Her blood is still smeared
on the entryway.
Two weeks later,
if you didn't look over here,
it just look like a regular home
on a Saturday morning.
Orange juice sells the newspaper or mail
some cookies.
When you look over here at the kitchen,
you can see people have gone through it.
They opened all the cabinets.
There's
still cups in the sink.
Her kettle is still out.
And Gina is one of several
who was brutally murdered in her kibbutz
on that Saturday morning.
The Zach family lived
just down the street.
Parents, Itai,
Eddie and their 14 year old son,
Soggy were at home when the attack began.
Their older
children, Hadar and Toma, were away.
We reach 24 year old Hadar on face time.
What's through there?
What's what was through that window?
This is the first time
he's able to see the charred
remains of his family's home.
Experts told me that he opened the moment
and found my dad
laying on the ground with my dog,
just watching the doors
so that there was one coming in
the bodies of his mother
and little brother
were found hugging each other
in the nearby bomb shelter
where they asphyxiated
after militants set their home on fire
just days before Soggy was
dancing his heart out
at a Bruno Mars concert in Tel Aviv.
Just I'm 24.
We have ten years between us.
It's hard for me to see my little brother
because it was my child.
Haidar and his sister Tomer
are now orphans.
His grief and his anger is palpable.
It's kind of absurd to me
that you guys saw me first
and is someone from Israel,
You know what I mean?
I love my niece's make.
It was just amazing for the government.
I have more of the support
just 24 hours later
in the Kissa film area.
An IDF soldier is killed
and three others wounded
during a raid ahead of Israel's
expected ground invasion in Gaza.
An ominous warning shot
of what is yet to come.
It's difficult to watch.
And I do want to note
that we got permission
from these families
to go into their homes,
something that
that felt invasive to be there
but was so important to them
and to her daughter to be able
to see his house for the first time.
I want to express our gratitude for them,
for letting us in, to see their pain
and to tell their stories
as well as to Major Marcus Scheff
for taking us inside that kibbutz.